This is my good friend Mauricio, and he
told me that he spent 10 hours every
single week writing YouTube scripts,
which absolutely blows my mind. So, I
bet him $1,000 that I could use AI to
write a script that's not only retention
optimized, but also 10 times better than
what he would write on his own with half
the time. I'm going to take you through
live my exact ideation process to
researching to outline to writing the
script all the way to editing the video
all the way to the end. This is my
entire script writing process all in a
raw video over here. Enjoy. So whenever
you are creating a script, I break it
down into five steps. So the first step
is the idea plus the title. The second
step is the research. The third step is
the outlining. Fourth step is actually
scripting the video once you have
outlined all of the bullet points. And
then the fifth step is to just record.
So, I want to see how fast I can go
through this entire process and I want
to help you see my entire thought
process when I'm writing the script and
how I put together the pieces with AI
and and have AI be trained on some of
the ways that I actually think about how
to write a script here. So, let's go.
Okay. In terms of the idea and the
title, uh I don't really have anything
right now. So, the first thing that I
would do is that I would just browse
YouTube and I'll kind of see if there is
anything uh that stands out to me. Just
like scrolling the homepage here. Uh,
looks like I watch a bunch of garbage,
but it's okay. Um, maybe let's go look
at a bunch of the other like YouTube
faceless channels. So, the first thing
that I would do is I will, you know, uh,
YouTube faceless channels. The first
thing that I always do is that I like to
look at any adjacent channels here uh,
to see if there's any kind of sort of
inspiration here. How to start a
faceless channel as a beginner in 2026 5
hours 1.2x outer by Rosan. This is doing
pretty decent. Uh, Tube Lab is also
doing [music] pretty decent over here,
right? These channels 11x views. Quit
your job. Actually, ridiculous. Sage,
saturated, unsaturated, faceless niches,
any automation. Okay, nothing super
duper interesting over here as of now.
Um, yeah, let me go ahead and see over
here if there's anything super duper
interesting. Um, maybe I can go to Nate
Black. Let me see if there's kind of
inspiration here. Not a ton of
inspiration that I necessarily want to
model in terms of new YouTube technique
that's exploding small channels. Looks
pretty good. 11 upgrades to make your
videos cheap and thumbnails the new
revolution on YouTube. Easy higher CTR.
Okay, those videos are performing pretty
good. Um, nothing super recent that I
wants to immediately model and not
anything that's super duper interesting
to me in terms of, you know, like maybe
like let me search YouTube growth over
here. Let me see if there's anything
super interesting. Dave Jelma, this
guy's absolutely crushing. My name is
Dave.
>> So, let's see if there's anything here.
Right, this has been super trending,
right? Nine things you must do before
uploading your YouTube video. Let me see
if he has anything up here. Right. How
small creators win YouTube's new
algorithm. This is a 20x over here. Hm.
Eight things you should never do after
uploading a YouTube video. This is super
interesting to me. Maybe let me take a
screenshot of this. Right. So, um, let
me just open a new Google doc over here.
Let me see. So, there's eight things you
should never do after uploading a video.
Let's look for validation on this.
Things you should never do after
uploading a video. Okay. 11 things.
Okay. So, these absolutely crushed. This
one's almost at a million views after
every upload. Things you should never do
after uploading a video. Okay. So,
there's actually a bunch of people who
are who have replicated this specific
outlier, which is pretty interesting.
And some of these get a million views.
So, like when I see it, when I see
something like this that's absolutely
popping, a couple things immediately
stand out is that I want to break this
down into its base part and base
components, right? And really, I always
want to remind myself that the niche
that I'm operating in is in the YouTube
script writing niche. Okay? So, I I want
to exclusively make videos around
YouTube script writing for my specific
channel. So, it says X things you should
never do. So, this works if you would
break down why this works. So, never is
the negative angle. never do you know um
you know time period it's either before
slash after before before slash after
um action with regards to YouTube video.
Okay, this is super interesting. Okay, I
mean like we can just do 11 things you
should never do let's say before
scripting a YouTube video. Okay, and
like this is I guess the base video
idea. Let's say 11 things you should
never do after scripting a YouTube
video. After scripting a YouTube video
doesn't really make sense. I mean, we
want to go with a before before writing
a [music] YouTube script. Okay. Like
that could also be a variation of this.
I think we can take these two variations
and then we can [music] we can see what
we can do over here with these two
variations. Let's see. Let's see what we
can do. I think I think this might be
the title or the or the video idea done.
Um, another thing that I typically do
once I have this, let me just copy
[music] this over here. Let me go into
subscriber AI. And what I'm going to do
is I already have my channel loaded up
in here. So, basically what Subscriber
AI is, it's an AI YouTube script writing
tool um, that, you know, understands
YouTube on a very deep level. It
analyzes your voice, analyzes your
audience. And what I've done is I've
just added my channel onto here. So I'm
just going to ask it, hey I have these
[music] two video ideas. I want to do is
there data to validate that these ideas
are strong. They are the same idea but
uh different titling.
Okay, let's see what it immediately
says. I'm super duper curious [music] as
to what it comes up with. Okay, so it
gives some like script writing data over
here.
Um, 11 things you should never do before
scripting a YouTube video. 11 mistakes
that will kill your YouTube script.
Okay, stop doing these 11 things before
you write a script. Actually, that's not
bad either.
Really start the project.
Um, okay. So, I mean, it's saying that
there's good data. Is there negative
data to suggest this idea might not
work?
So, let So, we also want to see the
negative and the positive, right? to see
whether this will actually work on this
channel.
Um, see, okay, this title didn't work so
well.
Risk for 11 things you should never do.
The risk is in the form. It's the
specificity of the 11 items. If the 11
things are generic, don't procrastinate.
Don't forget your hook. The video will
fail because it looks like the loweffort
content your audience ignores. To make
this idea, 11 things must be
counterintuitive. [music] Mistake that
creators thinks are good ideas. Don't
write your script word for word. Highly
specific tangible actions or processes.
Actionable something they can stop doing
immediately to see results. Okay, so
this is like super duper interesting. It
immediately tells me what to not talk
about. Okay, so then let's go explore
the idea. So let's see how long this
takes [music] us to actually like fully
put together. Um, explore the idea
basically means to [music] write an
outline for the script. Okay, so uh
we're kind of like having a rough
outline here that we can generate before
we go into the research phase over here.
So it's giving us a bunch of recommended
mistakes, right? And then we can see
what we want to do if it's not
finalizing the title and thumbnail
first. Choosing a topic instead of an
angle.
Ignoring your own outliers. Writing for
[music] subscribers, not strangers.
Okay. Researching for facts, not pain
points. Not reading the comments of
competitors. Okay, it is pretty good.
Starting with the introduction. Writing
a linear textbook flow. Writing for
reading. Not speaking. Not planning the
visuals before the final draft.
Forgetting the valuedriven call to
action. Okay, I mean that's fine. Yeah.
What word count are you targeting for?
Um, so in terms of word count, I want to
look at these videos and see what their
word count is. These are about 13
minutes long. So, [music] okay, like
let's do it. 13 minutes long. I want
this video to be about 2400 words. Let's
write the script.
So, I want the [music] title to
specifically be this 11 things you
should never do before writing a YouTube
script.
Yeah, let's just say scripting [music] a
YouTube video. Let's run with this
title. And then here we have we can pick
the educational template English uh
script length over here. Okay. Okay, do
you want this talk purely as a tutorial
or do you want to weave in personal
examples to prove each mistake [music]
would treat the past video allies will
reference to show how avoiding these
mistakes improved CTR retention? What
single counterintuitive takeaway should
viewers remember after the 11 mistakes
[music] thesis in one sentence? Where do
you want to funnel viewers at the end of
that specific video? Do you want an
onscreen? So, [music] uh, at the end of
the video, I want to funnel
people to watch my full YouTube script
writing course. Yeah. At the 3 minute
mark, I want to do
a call to action to where they can get
the checklist so they don't miss these
mistakes when writing scripts. This is a
script writing checklist. Okay, pretty
good, right? And then, okay, do you want
this start as a tutorial? Okay, I want
this to have personal examples. Okay, so
now that we've got kind of the idea and
the title and we're about to go into the
outline section, the first thing that we
want to do is actually do the research.
[music] Okay, and in terms of this
specific research part, what many people
get wrong is that they'll just kind of
like browse the internet to go like find
some of these points that you can
potentially talk about. But I don't
necessarily want to do that because I
want to have my own expert insight.
[music] Okay. So, in terms of how I
actually put together this research, my
main piece of advice for anyone who's
starting out and wants to write these
scripts is that uh you can actually look
at what conversations you've had
throughout the week in terms of that
specific topic. Right? If you're writing
a faceless script, then um if you talk a
lot about history with your friends,
maybe that's that the the topics you
guys talked about can be used as
research, right? Or you can, you know,
dive deep into the internet, use Plexity
to do that kind of research. If you're
if you're more on the business side,
more on the branding side, right? What I
like to do is, hey, I will look at the
call transcripts that I have with
regards to YouTube script writing or any
conversations that I have in my calendar
about how to write a script, right? And
then I will turn that information into a
YouTube video. Okay. So, I have all of
my call recordings here uh in ReadAI,
right? So, I can see all of my call
recordings. Um, and let me just go ahead
and see which one would be the most
relevant here. So over here, what I can
do is I can go into the calls that I've
done, right? What calls have I had? And
I can ask AI, you know, I can download a
transcript, put into chat GBT. In this
case, readai has its own native AI over
here that I can just directly talk to.
So you can see over here,
right, your meeting with Pedro, it
discussed this, right? The main issue
identified was not script writing
itself, but with ideation. and you
advise that a real challenge is coming
up with high quality video ideas rather
than obsessing over script details.
Okay, suggest that one thing to avoid is
spending too much time perfecting
scripts when the core video concept
isn't strong enough. Okay, so what I'll
do is go here, right? In terms of
points, right, one point to mention is
and then I can just copy and paste this
over here.
Okay, cautioning is focusing solely on
scripting for retention if the video
idea isn't compelling. Noting that a
well-written script count complicates it
for a weak concept. Okay. Bang. So I can
even put this over here. Right. You
adise that if the AVD is already good,
further script tweaks may not yield
significant improvements. Okay, cool.
That's fine. So let me just go back here
and then let me see uh let me ask chat
in general, right? What advice did I
give uh for mistakes made um before
writing a script? So that way it can
scrape all of the calls that I've done
and then it can give me specific advice
based on that. Okay. So you can see over
here my specific recommendations from
all of the calls that I gave. Um okay,
you advise that before writing a script.
You should clarify and brain all your
ideas, scenarios, and research in the
document. This ensures you have all
necessary information on a Google doc.
Okay, that makes sense. Insert
unnecessary questions into the script
which makes the writing less direct and
less engaging. Okay, that also makes
sense. But then that's not necessary
before writing the script. You also
mentioned the value of outlining the
script thoroughly ensuring that each
point flows logically to the next and
that the structure is clear. This helps
avoid the mistake of having disconnected
or weakly linked sections. Okay, you
know that mistakes such as spelling
errors or minor imperfections are not
catastrophic. I'm leaving small
mistakes. Okay, so you can I can ask
over here. I want to focus exclusively
on mistakes
before writing a script not just general
mistakes. So let's see what it comes up
with over here. Right. And once again,
you can do this with anything, right? If
you have already documents that you've
already written uh on that specific
topic, you can feed into chatbt and then
you can kind of give that or you can
just feed that information directly into
subscriber AI, which is, you know, my
personal preference for YouTube script
writing tool. And let's see over here.
So, mistakes to avoid before writing a
script, right? Not validating the core
idea. First, write insufficient or poor
research. Right? You highlighted
adequate research or spending too much
time on unfocused research is a
foundational mistake. Good research
underpins trustworthy and engaging
script while bad research can lead to
factual errors, right? Not brain dumping
or organizing ideas, right? Skipping the
outline or structure, not considering
the audience or the purpose of the
video.
Okay, so actually these are pretty good,
right? So like, let me take this. I'm
I'm going to want to take this and then
I'm going to want to turn this into a
YouTube script. So I'm going to put this
over here, too. And then that's pretty
much all of the context that I want to
add. So like let me go over here, add
any specific context over here. And then
I'm like totally curious as to what the
outline will give us just based on this
like I've already fed it the minimum
amount of information that I want and
then I want to see okay what it actually
produces and whether it's able to write
in my voice or not. Okay over here hook
50 words right I told it to be to have a
short hook. Open with the
counterintuitive truth. Most script
failures happen before you write a
single word. Most YouTube videos
flop before you even write a single word
of the script. Okay. Reference personal
client example. Okay. Promise to review
the 11 things that kill
uh YouTube videos
in the script writing phase. Okay. So,
so I can be a little bit more specific
here. Okay. I just want to delete this
section. Okay. And then I can hear I can
see mistake one, mistake two, mistake
three, mistake four, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
11, and then it just goes to a close.
Finally before locking your title and
thumbnail. I think that mistake one
makes sense. Choosing stop topic instead
of angles. Write personal example of
generic versus specific approach.
Ignoring your own viral data when
brainstorming new concepts. Okay, that
makes sense. Uh, include a threeminute
call to action for script writing
checklist. Okay, this is in the middle
of the video. That makes sense, too. The
research and validation killers.
Researching facts instead of pain points
and emotional triggers. Okay, skipping
competitor comment analysis for audience
inside mining. Uh, I'm not that big of a
fan of this, so I will like make note of
this. Let me just bode this right now so
that I know to look at it a little bit
later. Not validating your core concept
before investing time in the script. Um,
okay. Mistake seven, planning linear
textbook style content flow for YouTube
format. Writing for reading instead of
natural speech patterns, forgetting to
plan pattern [music] interruptions and
in and engagement moments, not planning
visual storytelling elements. Okay.
failing to design, clear viewer journey,
and call to action strategy. This is,
this one's kind of vague, so maybe I
will just completely delete this. Okay,
maybe I'll just delete this. Okay, and
then I'm just going to tell it uh
because I want to see like the bare
bones of the script before I, you know,
start scripting it. So, I can tell it,
hey, I like the outline and the points.
Can you expand on each of the mistakes
with two three bullet points so I know
the logical flow here? Right. So at this
stage we have done the idea in the
title. We've done the research which is
you know looking at our existing call
transcripts any documents that we have
and then now we are outlining the script
and we're just going back and forth with
AI so we can save a bunch of time over
here and let's see what it gives us.
Okay. And you can see over here it
updates every single mistake over here.
So I'm just going to give it another
quick read. Mistake number one
finalizing your script uh before locking
in your title and thumbnail. Right. You
write a brilliant script but realize the
title doesn't match the content promise.
the thumbnail becomes an afterthought.
Instead of driving the entire narrative
structure, you end up reverse engineing
a weaker title to fit your script
instead of writing to fulfill a stronger
promise. Okay. Mistake number two, how
to grow on YouTube as a topic. The
treatment of a trick that got me 100k uh
subscribers is an angle. The topics are
passive and forgettable. Angles create
urgency and specificity that drives
clicks. Right? You you compete with
thousands of generic videos instead of
owning your uh unique perspective. Okay.
So what is kind of missing over here
that I'm noticing is that we kind of
just explain the mistakes and then there
is no like a oneliner to [music] explain
um how to actually how to actually like
refine it. Okay or like how to actually
avoid the mistake. So um I like how
you've expanded on them. add a fourth
bullet point [music] as a oneliner to
help to give the viewer [music]
an actionable to refine the mistake to
correct the mistake. Okay, so just like
that then we can add a bullet to each of
these. Okay, there you go. You can see
we have a fix for each of these. Okay,
so once again over here mistake one fix
lock your title and thumbnail concept
first then write your script to deliver
on that promise. Okay, uh that makes
sense, right? Turn every topic into a
specific angle with a unique mechanism,
time frame, or a contrarian intake.
Okay, it doesn't require a specific time
frame necessarily, so I'm going to
delete that. Turn every topic into a
specific angle. Okay. Yeah, that makes
sense. Ignoring your own viral data when
brainstorming new concepts. You chase
trending topics instead of analyzing
what already works for your specific
audience. So, I would add here, everyone
looks at what is performing for the top
channels in your niche to determine what
kind of videos to make. Right? So, but
instead you should be analyzing what
already worked for your specific
container blueprint for future viral
content. You waste time valid in your
your analytics already reviewed winning
uh formulas. Study your top three
performing videos and extract the
winning angles and double down on them.
Okay, that makes sense. Include
three-minute call to action. Uh include,
you know, one minute 30 second call to
action, right? Bridge to research phase
mistakes. Okay. Researching facts
instead of pain points and emot
emotional triggers. Um but miss
emotional frustrations that actually
hook viewers. Facts and form about pain
points create urgency that keeps people
watching past the first 30 seconds,
right? Um you end up with emot
educational content that's boring
instead of engaging because it lacks
emotional resonance for every factor
research. Find emotional frustration. It
solves all the desire that it fulfills.
Okay, that that incredibly makes sense.
Mistake number five, skipping competitor
comment analysis for audience insight
mining. That that's a mouthful. I don't
really like that. Comment sections
review what other viewers find
confusing. Uh, so I'm going to go here.
Can you replace mistake five with
another mistake? Mistake five isn't
super compelling, right? So you can see
over here, this is me working with the
AI to actually figure out my actual
content. Uh, once again, I didn't even
feed it that much context, but for the
most part, it's actually pretty accurate
over here. So, it's giving me three
different options, [music] right? Not
starting with your hook first. Um,
right? Writing without a clear call to
action strategy, not planning your
attention hooks and open loops. Um here
I would say yeah it's okay. Yeah. Option
A. Let's do option A. Not starting with
your hook first. I want to see how this
um this plays out. Okay. Mistake number
five is not starting with hook. Right.
So you write an entire script and try to
craft the hook at the end. The hook
becomes weak because you're forcing it
to fit content that wasn't built around
it. Right? But you're treating as an
afterthought. Write your hook first,
then build the rest of the script to
deliver on that promise. Okay? Not
validating your core concept before
[music] investing time in scripting. Not
validating your idea first. All right.
Um, not validating your title. Okay. No
amount of creating can save a weak video
idea that doesn't solve that doesn't
trigger the audience to click on your
video. You waste creative energy on
execution when the foundation was flawed
from the start. Test your concept with
five people in your target audience
before writing a single word of script.
Um, okay. This makes sense, but I would
say like let's move mistake six to be
mistake four. Right? So I'm just trying
to move around the order of these over
here. So let me just read this in the
meantime. The structure and flow
destroyers. Mistakes seven. Planning
linear textbook style content flow for
YouTube format. Your structure content
looks like a college lecture instead of
planning interruption panner
interruptions every 30 to 60 seconds.
Linear flow kills retention because
viewers expect constant stimulation and
visual changes and you forget to build
in open loops, callbacks, and curiosity
gaps that keep people engaged. So plan a
pattern interrupt every 45 seconds
before writing your script. I think that
makes sense. Cool. Mistake number eight,
writing for reading instead of natural
speech patterns. Right? So, your
sentences are too long and complex to
say naturally on camera. You use formal
language that sounds robotic. The script
reads well on paper but sounds awkward
when spoken, killing your camera energy,
right? Um, I would say like this isn't
actually the right explanation, right?
for from mistake 888. The explanation
should be that most people will mumble
to themselves before they write the
script, right? And then just put the
script on paper. When in reality, right,
you can uh open your voice note app,
start walking around and talking
directly into your phone so that the
video note can transcribe it. [music]
and it's a lot more in your voice,
right? So, you can see me even as I'm
typing this, I'm just reading it out
loud. Um, so that way when you read your
writing out on camera, it sounds a lot
more [music] like you and a lot more
natural. So, the fix would be to speak
first, to brain dump, and then write the
script. So, here I'm just modifying each
section with the AI. So mistake number
nine, planning, forgetting to plan
pattern recognitions and engagement
movements.
Not super in love with mistake number
nine. Maybe we can cancel out mistake
number nine first and then uh mark every
visual cue. Not planning visual
storytelling elements, right? So like
mistake number nine and mistake number
10 are pretty much the same. So I would
[music] want to cut out mistake number
nine. I want to cut out mistake number
nine and see what happens over here. And
then okay, we have mistake number 10,
mistake number 11, right? Obsessing over
script perfection when your concept is
this weak. We already have that as
mistake number 11. Okay. Transition to
closing. Hook attention of a promise.
Complete script writing mastery system.
So here we have some of the numberings
off because I deleted it. Okay. Make
sure the numberings of the mistakes are
correct. And finalize this outline. How
many words will this be? Okay. So I can
see over here, right? It's better to get
AI to like ideulate a bunch and then you
just cut it out so that it's more in
your voice uh versus trying to write it
on your own. So you can see over here,
right? It doesn't um so 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
nine. Okay, so we have like mistakes
nine over here. So mistakes nine over
here. So I'm just going to keep talking,
right? So we have nine mistakes. How
long is this video you think? Right now
it has nine mistakes. I cut out to
relook at the script. Okay. So, then it
will be 20 about a 2100word video. So,
bam. You can see over here. Let's see. I
think I think this looks good. Like, I'm
just going to go ahead and write out the
full script and then I can just edit it
directly from there. So, what I'm going
to do is I'm going to click script. I'm
going to click generate script. It's
going to use up some of my credits and
then uh we'll be right back once this
has fully loaded. So, you can see over
here we've just generated the full
script. Right now, I'm just going to
read it out loud to make sure that it's
actually good. So, right now, we're at
the stage of scripting the video. Okay,
we've done these three stages over here,
right? These three are completely done.
So, I'm just going to bow them real
quick. So, one killer YouTube video can
completely change your life, but most
videos flop before you even write a
single word of the script. But most
videos flop before you can even write a
single word. I had a client who spent
three weeks perfecting what he thought
was the perfect script only to realize
his concept was his idea was dead on
arrival. In this video, I'm breaking
down the nine things you should never do
before scripting a YouTube video. Okay,
pretty fire intro. Okay, so like let's
go with that. So section one, the fatal
mistakes. Okay, so I'm just going to
start with mistake one. Mistake one,
most creators, most YouTubers write an
amazing script first, then try to figure
out the title and thumbnail later.
That's mistake number one right there.
When you finalize your script before
locking your title and thumbnail, you're
setting yourself up for a disaster.
You'll write what you think is a
brilliant script, then realize the title
doesn't actually match what you
delivered. The thumbnail becomes then
becomes a random afterthought instead of
driving instead of driving the content
of your video. What ends up happening is
you reverse engineer a weaker title to
fit your script instead of writing a
script that delivers on a strong
promise. That's completely [music]
backwards. The fix is simple, but most
people don't resist it. But most people
never follow this advice. I but it's
crucial for winning on YouTube. Lock
your title and thumbnail concept first.
Then write your script to deliver on the
exact promise set by your TNT. Your
title is a contract real viewer and your
script needs to fulfill that contract
perfectly. This brings us to mistake
number two. And this one kills more
channels than anything I see. Most
YouTubers choose topics instead of
angles. So I can see here that it keeps
saying uh creators. So I want to replace
every time you say creators
with YouTubers. So I can just prompt the
whole thing to just remove anytime it
says creators. Most YouTubers um will
choose topics instead of angles will
choose topics instead of angles. And
then let me show you the difference.
It's fluff. So let me delete that. how
to grow on YouTube will prioritize
picking topics when in reality they
should be focusing on their video
angles. How to grow on YouTube is a
topic. It's generic and you're competing
with thousands of other videos saying
the exact same thing. But when you say
the threeminut trick that got me 100,000
subscribers, that is an angle that
stands out. It's specific. It creates
urgency and it makes people think what
is what's this threeminut trick. Topics
are passive and forgettable there. They
can be super broad while angles create
urgency and specificity that drives the
click. When you stick with topics,
you're competing with thousands of
generic videos instead of owning a
unique perspective. The fix is to turn
every topic into a specific angle
[music]
with either a unique mechanism or
contrary intake. Instead of how to lose
weight, try why eating more helped me
lose 30 lbs. instead of social media
marketing tips, go with the Instagram
feature. Everyone ignores that doubled
my sales. So, it's incredibly specific
here. Now, mistake number three is
something I see even experienced
YouTubers mess up con constantly.
Everyone looks at what's performing for
the top channels in their niche to
figure out what kind of videos to make.
That seems logical, right? Just follow
out art theory. But it's not that it's
backwards thinking, but there is a much
more efficient system. Instead, you
should be analyzing what already works
for your specific audience. Your best
performing videos contain the blueprint
for what's going to work in the future.
But most people completely ignore what's
right in front of them. You waste time
trying to validate brand new ideas when
your analytics already reveal the
winning formula. Your audience already
told you what they want more of through
their watch time and returning
viewership. So study your top three
performing videos and extract the
winning angles. Then double down on
them. Look at the titles, look at hooks,
look at the topics, what patterns you
see, what made people click, what kept
them watching. If your audience loved a
video about productivity mistakes,
they'll probably love productivity myths
or productivity secrets. Right, let me
just delete this. Let's just keep
deleting. Right? Most YouTubers are
chasing shiny and new ideas when their
biggest wins are sitting right there in
their analytics. Your data doesn't lie,
but your assumption about assumptions
about what your audience once probably
do. Okay. And then before we dive into
the research mistakes that kill scripts,
I want to give you something that will
save you hours of trial and error. I've
created a complete script writing
checklist that covers every step of this
process. It's the exact framework I use
for my clients to get millions of views.
Click the link in the description to
grab it for free. Right? So, I've
completely that covers everything to
avoid before writing your next script I
use with my clients who are getting
millions of views. Click to grab for
free. So, let's just go here. Mistake
four.
This next mistake is probably the most
expensive one on this entire list and I
see it happen every single week. You
spend hours, sometimes days perfecting
your script for an idea that was never
compelling enough, that was never
interesting enough to begin with. No
amount of grit writing can save a weak
video idea that doesn't trigger your
audience to actually click on your
video. The idea is king. Here's what
typically happens, right? You get
excited about a concept, you dive
straight into scripting, and you waste
all this creative energy on execution
when the foundation was flawed from the
start. It's like building a beautiful
house on quicksand. I had a client who
spent two weeks writing this incredibly
detailed script about YouTube analytics.
The writing was fantastic. The structure
was perfect, but the title or more
specifically the topic was on nerdy
YouTube analytics which 99% of the
YouTube growth audience doesn't care
about. I mean, who's going to click on
that? Sounds like homework. The fix is
to test is to validate your topic and
angle with what is already working on
your channel and on YouTube. If no one
wants to see your topic, you're better
off making videos about another one.
This leads us to mistake number five or
like mistake five. This one breaks my
heart because it's so easily
preventable. Most YouTubers will write
their entire script first, then try to
craft a hook at the end that's
completely backwards. Your hook becomes
weak because you're forcing it to fit
content that wasn't built around it.
Think about it this way. Your first 10
seconds determines 80% of your
attention, but you're treating it as an
afterthought. That's like planning a
party and deciding what music to play
after everybody's already gone home.
Okay, that's fine. When you write a hook
loss, you end up with these generic
openings like in today's video I'm going
to show you. And well, welcome back to
my channel. Those hooks don't hook
anybody. Okay, when you write your hook
loss, you end up with
you end up trying to force fit the hook
into your content. Instead, the content
should fit the mode of the hook. Because
like how the title and thumbnail sets
expectations, sets expectations for the
first 30 seconds. The hook, the first 30
seconds sets expectations for the rest
of the video. So, write your hook first.
Build the rest of your script. Deliver
on that promise. Your hook is your
video's thesis statement. Everything
that follows should support and fulfill
what you promised in those first 30
seconds. This is where I see YouTubers
sabotage their own retention without
even realizing. Most people research
facts and statistics, but they
completely [music] missed the emotional
frustrations that actually hook viewers.
You spend hours gathering data about
algorithm changes or best posting times,
but you want to spend five minutes
understanding why your audience is
frustrated. Facts inform, but pain
points create urgency that keep people
watching past the first 30 seconds. When
you lead with statistics instead of
emotions, you end up with educational
content that's technically accurate but
boring as hell. Or at the very least,
your content has to be relatable. For
every fact you research, find the
emotional frustration that solves all
the desire it fulfills. Don't just tell
people how the algorithm works. Tell
them why their current approach is
keeping them stuck and how understanding
algorithm will finally get them the
views they deserve. Your research should
uncover pain points, not just talking
points. When you understand what keeps
your audience up at night, you can write
scripts that actually matter to them and
it has the potential to completely
change their lives. Right? So, you can
see over here kind of the structure that
I have, right? We have the outline first
and now I'm just refining every single
word to sound exactly like me. Cool.
Mistake 79. Now, we're getting into the
structural mistakes that kill retention.
And mistake number seven is probably the
most common one I see from creators who
have good ideas but terrible execution.
Most people plan their content like a
college lecture instead of understanding
how YouTube actually works. You
structure everything linearly point A to
B to C without any pattern interruptions
without any pattern interruptions.
That's that's boring as [__] YouTube
viewers expect constant stimulation and
visual changes every 30 to 60 seconds,
right? It's not that they expect
constant stimulation, right? Um [music]
you want to constantly rehook your
viewer, right? Your viewers are being
bombarded
by, you know, hundreds of notifications
every hour and it's your job to hold
their attention and not make them bored.
When you plan linear textbook style
content flow, you're basically asking
people to sit through a boring
presentation, right? You just dump
information. Okay. Yeah. That keeps
people engaged. That keeps viewers
watching. Linear flow works for books
and academic papers, but it doesn't work
for YouTube because the medium is
completely [music] different. On
YouTube, attention is earned every
single second, not given up front, not
is earned every single second. Plan a
panner interrupt every 45 seconds
maximum. There could be a visual change
and energy or even you need to
constantly give viewers a reason to keep
watching. Right? for educational videos.
Give them a new aha moment or something
or a or something to think about or a
new uh change of pace in the story.
Whereas for entertainment videos, there
can be a camera switch, a new angle, a
camera switch, um an unexpected twist,
or a new character introduction. All of
it works. That brings us to mistake
number eight, and this one's going to
change how you approach script writing
forever. Most people mumble to
themselves before writing, then put the
script on paper. Most people Most people
mumble to themselves before writing,
then just put all or worse or worse,
they'll stay completely silent and just
uh click buttons on their laptop, but
you're missing. Okay. What happens is
your script reads well on paper, but it
sounds stiff and unnatural when you
deliver it on camera. You lose all that
energy and personality that makes people
want to listen to you. I see YouTubers
who are naturally charismatic, engaging,
but their scripts make them sound like
robots reading from a teleprompter.
That's because they're writing for
reading instead of writing for speaking.
This is what I do. Um, this is what I do
when I'm writing a raw script. Open your
voice note app, start walking around.
Uh, not start walking around, go for a
long walk and talk directly into your
phone to brain dump your ideas and let
the voice transcribe everything
naturally. Then you're then write your
script based on that natural
transcription by either writing it
manually or feeding it into uh an AI
trained on your voice. This way when you
read your writing on camera, it sounds
like you because it literally is you.
Your natural speech patterns, your
personality, your energy, it's all
captured in the script. Scripts written
this way flow naturally. They're easier
to memorize and they maintain your
authentic voice throughout and they
maintain your natural essence throughout
the entire video. Okay, mistake nine.
This is where most creators completely
miss the point of what YouTube actually
is. You write a script that's
essentially a podcast. You not that they
write a script, this is actually a
podcast. When writing a script, it's
easy to get caught up in the words and
just assume that's the entire video. But
YouTube is not just audio-based, it's
also visual, right? So, you don't just
want to script out the visuals. You you
don't just want to script out uh the
words, you also want to script out the
visuals. The B-roll is just as essential
as the main script. Strong B-roll can
multiply the effectiveness of your
script by 10x. This is how I effectively
plan out B-roll for my videos. When you
say, "This strategy increased my views
by 300%." What are people looking at?
When people [music] explain explain a
complex concept, what visual is
supporting your explanation? Most
creators have no idea because they never
planned for [music] it. When you say,
"This strategy increased my views by
200%." Maybe I can just delete this
section. I want to like maybe rewrite a
section on my own. So, visual
storytelling isn't just about making
your video look pretty. It's about using
every element on the screen to keep
people [music] engaged and help them
understand your message better. Write
visual directions in brackets for every
key point for your script. When you
mention a statistic, note what graph or
visual will support it. When [music] you
tell a story, plan what B-roll will
illustrate it. And that way, your editor
will have a much clearer time in terms
of what to
of what graphics to add. Your script
should be a complete blueprint for what
you'll say and what your viewers will
see. This makes editing faster,
retention higher, and your message
clear. And then bam, here's this call to
action. Look, these nine mistakes
[music] killing YouTube channels. But
here's the thing most YouTubers don't
realize. So most YouTubers don't realize
[music] avoiding this mistakes is just a
foundation. Let me just delete this
whole thing. That's why I created this.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in
the next one. Cool. [music] So we just
written this entire script. Right. So
that's pretty good. Now I just want to
use the AI to give me any
recommendations. So let me ask it what
is the word count on [music] this. Um,
so let me just ask it what improvements
can be made to this script. Right? So
I'm just curious what improvements that
I think can be made to the script. So
I'm just going to feed it this. Okay. So
like here it gives me all of the
mistakes here. Right? Hook solid most.
Okay. So what it's saying is that there
isn't credibility. So what I can do is I
can add credibility. My name is Brian
[music] and I have written 1,000 plus
YouTube scripts in the past year in this
video. Okay. So we have the credibility
here. Section transitions. cuz the
transitions between mistakes feel a
little bit abrupt [music] and stronger
connective tissue. For example, mistake
three could say something like, "But
having the right to hopping angle means
nothing if you don't validate it first."
Which brings it to mistake four. Okay. I
actually like super like that. So you
see section three. Uh-huh. Okay. So
yeah, there you go. Mistake four. This
section feels rushy mentioned example
but don't fully drive home why
validation matters. Could expand on the
cost of not validating. Waste of time,
energy, algorithm penalty for low CTR.
Um, okay. [music] I would agree. I would
agree. expand on section for
explanation. Right? So, I'm just going
to ask you to do that. Strong concept,
but execution section could be more
concrete. Give a specific example of
what happens when [music] you write the
hook last versus first. Show the
difference in the actual hook quality. I
don't really care for that. Good
principle, but thin on examples. You
mentioned algorithm changes and best
posting class, but don't show how
actually extract pain points from
research. Okay. Section six, show how to
extract pain points. Make the fix fix
more actionable. Okay. Mistake seven.
You mention every 45 seconds, but this
needs more specificity. What does a
pattern interrupt look like in a script?
Right. Give two examples of a pattern
interrupt. Mistake seven. There you go.
Okay. Uh, mistake eight. Give more
specifics on what to [music] do with the
voice notes. Okay. I do like that.
Right. Mistake number nine. The concept
is strong but excuse vague. Write visual
directions in brackets. Mistake nine,
make the fix more actionable and [music]
more specific. And then it's just going
to go ahead and like fix all of these
one by one. And it just gives
recommendations and I just pick okay,
what recommendations
>> [music]
>> uh completely make sense over here. And
then what I can also do here, I have a
prompt library. I can strengthen the
hook, improve pacing and p
interruptions. Let me see which one I
might want to do here. Add examples and
stories. I actually think it's like none
of these like the script right now is
pretty good. Add engagement triggers.
Enhance emotional impact. Okay. Optimize
call to actions.
I might want to analyze the call to
actions, but we already have one call to
action in here. So, I I I don't really
care for that. Okay. So, like let's just
see let's just see the content being
edited. And then once this is being
done, I'm going to write the video
description. So, I'm good here. And then
I'm going to write a newsletter content
here that actually publishes this. So,
um, that will be an easy newsletter to
write over here. Okay, there you go. So,
it just expanded on all four sections.
Um,
let me just read each section over here.
Mistake number four. Okay. Okay, that
makes sense. Number six, this where I
see sabotage their own retention without
even realizing it. Okay. Your
researchers should uncover pain points,
not just talking points where you
understand what keeps your audience up
at night. You can write scripts that
actually matter to them and has the
potential to completely change their
lives. Don't just tell people how the
algorithm works. Tell them why their
current approach is keeping them stuck
and understanding the algorithm will
finally get them the views that they
deserve. Actually, that's pretty good
over there. Mistake number seven. Um,
it's pretty good. Mistake number nine.
Okay. I mean, this is pretty good. I'm
I'm I'm not upset about this. So, there
you go. That's just me writing this full
script. Now, I'm just going to go use
the prompt library over here. Click into
here. Publish. I'm going to write a
video description. Bang.
And what I'm going to do since I have
this full script, I'm just going to
export it, copy it to clipboard,
clipboard, open it in a Google doc so
that I can give it directly to my
editor, paste it in here, and then yeah,
bang, we should be good to go. And I'm
also going to take this specific video
description over here, um,
copy it, and then I'm going to create an
additional tab over here, video
description. Right. So here, we can
format this a little bit better, but
that's fine. Boom. 11 things. I share it
publicly with my team and we should be
good to go. Okay, so that is it for
writing this entire script. Hopefully
this was helpful for you guys. Let me
know if you enjoyed this full breakdown
of how to use Subscriber AI to write a
YouTube script, how I write it
completely live, applying all of my
traditional script writing techniques
and combining it with AI. So, if you
want to learn exactly how I edited the
script like I did, and my exact thought
process over there, and you want to see
more of that, click over here on this
video. It's my full script writing
course. I go over A to Z all of the best
script writing principles that I install
into Subscriber AI. Watch it. I'm sure
you won't be disappointed. Thanks for
watching and I'll see you in the next
one.